docs/pages/docs/api-reference/config.mdx, before:

---
title: "Config API"
description: "API reference for the Ponder config file."
---

import { Callout, Tabs } from "nextra/components";

# Config API

The `ponder.config.ts` file contains contract names, addresses, and ABIs; network information like chain IDs and RPC URLs; database configurationl; and general options.

The `createConfig` function exported from `@ponder/core` returns the config object, which must be exported (named export called `config`) from `ponder.config.ts`.

## File requirements

The `createConfig` function exported by `@ponder/core` returns a config object which must be the default export of `ponder.config.ts`. By default, `ponder dev` and `start` look for `ponder.config.ts` in the current working directory. You can use the `--config-file` CLI option to specify a different path.

```ts filename="ponder.config.ts" {1,4}
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";
import { http } from "viem";

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    // ...
  },
  contracts: {
    // ...
  },
});
```

## Networks

The `networks` field is an object where each key is a network name containing that network's configuration. Networks are Ethereum-based blockchains like Ethereum mainnet, Goerli, or Foundry's local Anvil node.

<Callout type="warning">
  Most Ponder apps require a paid RPC provider plan to avoid rate-limiting.
</Callout>

| field                            |         type          |                                                                                                                        |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **name**                         |       `string`        | A unique name for the blockchain. Must be unique across all networks. _Provided as an object property name._           |
| **chainId**                      |       `number`        | The [chain ID](https://chainlist.org) for the network.                                                                 |
| **transport**                    |   `viem.Transport`    | A Viem `http`, `webSocket`, or `fallback` [Transport](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/transports/http.html).              |
| **pollingInterval**              | `number \| undefined` | **Default: `1_000`**. Frequency (in ms) used when polling for new events on this network.                              |
| **maxHistoricalTaskConcurrency** | `number \| undefined` | **Default: `20`**. Maximum concurrency of tasks during the historical sync. Can be reduced to work around rate limits. |

```ts filename="ponder.config.ts" {7-12,16}
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";
import { http } from "viem";

import { BlitmapAbi } from "./abis/Blitmap";

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    mainnet: {
      chainId: 1,
      transport: http(process.env.PONDER_RPC_URL_1),
    },
  },
  contracts: {
    Blitmap: {
      abi: BlitmapAbi,
      network: "mainnet",
      address: "0x8d04a8c79cEB0889Bdd12acdF3Fa9D207eD3Ff63",
      startBlock: 12439123,
    },
  },
});
```

## Contracts

<Callout>
  This is a low-level API reference. For an approachable overview & recipes, see
  the [Add contracts](/guides/add-contracts) guide.
</Callout>

The `contracts` field is an object where each key is a contract name containing that contract's configuration. Ponder will sync & index contract data according to the options you provide.

| field             |             type             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **name**          |           `string`           | A unique name for the smart contract. Must be unique across all contracts. _Provided as an object property name._                                                                                                        |
| **abi**           |        `abitype.Abi`         | The contract [ABI](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.17/abi-spec.html) as an array as const. Must be asserted as constant, see [ABIType documentation](https://abitype.dev/guide/getting-started#usage) for details. |
| **network**       |           `string`           | The name of the network this contract is deployed to. References the `networks` field.                                                                                                                                   |
| **address**       | `0x{string} \| 0x{string}[]` | One more more contract addresses. Mutually exclusive with `factory`.                                                                                                                                                     |
| **factory**       |    [`Factory?`](#factory)    | Factory pattern configuration. Mutually exclusive with `address`.                                                                                                                                                        |
| **filter**        |     [`Filter?`](#filter)     | Event filter criteria.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **startBlock**    |    `number \| undefined`     | **Default: `0`**. Block number to start syncing events. Usually set to the contract deployment block number. **Default: `0`**                                                                                            |
| **endBlock**      |    `number \| undefined`     | **Default: `undefined`**. Block number to stop syncing events. If this field is specified, the contract will not be indexed in realtime. This field can be used alongside `startBlock` to index a specific block range.  |
| **maxBlockRange** |    `number \| undefined`     | The maximum block range that Ponder will use when calling `eth_getLogs` during the historical sync. If not provided, Ponder uses a sane default based on the network.                                                    |

```ts filename="ponder.config.ts" {17-20}
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";
import { http } from "viem";

import { BlitmapAbi } from "./abis/Blitmap";

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    mainnet: {
      chainId: 1,
      transport: http(process.env.PONDER_RPC_URL_1),
    },
  },
  contracts: {
    Blitmap: {
      abi: BlitmapAbi,
      network: "mainnet",
      address: "0x8d04a8c79cEB0889Bdd12acdF3Fa9D207eD3Ff63",
      startBlock: 12439123,
    },
  },
});
```

### Factory

| field         |                         type                         |                                                                                               |
| :------------ | :--------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **address**   |                       `string`                       | The address of the factory contract that creates instances of this contract.                  |
| **event**     | [`AbiEvent`](https://abitype.dev/api/types#abievent) | The ABI item of the event that announces the creation of a new child contract.                |
| **parameter** |                       `string`                       | The name of the parameter within `event` that contains the address of the new child contract. |

### Filter

| field     |               type                |                                                                                                                                                   |
| :-------- | :-------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **event** | `string \| string[] \| undefined` | **Default: `undefined`**. One or more event names present in the provided ABI.                                                                    |
| **args**  |       `object \| undefined`       | **Default: `undefined`**. An object containing indexed argument values to filter for. Only allowed if **one** event name was provided in `event`. |

## Database

Ponder uses a SQL database to cache blockchain data and store indexed data. In development, Ponder uses a SQLite database located at `.ponder/store/`. In production, Ponder works best with a PostgreSQL database. If no `database` is specified in `ponder.config.ts`, Ponder will use SQLite _unless_ the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable is present, in which case it will use PostgreSQL with `DATABASE_URL` as the connection string.

See [Deploy to production](/guides/production) for more details.

| field                |           type           |                                                                                                                |
| :------------------- | :----------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **kind**             | `"sqlite" \| "postgres"` | Kind of database to use.                                                                                       |
| **connectionString** |  `string \| undefined`   | **Default: `process.env.DATABASE_URL`**. Postgres database connection string. Only used if `kind: "postgres"`. |

## Options

| field                      |   type   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| :------------------------- | :------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **maxHealthcheckDuration** | `number` | **Default: `4 * 60`**. Maximum number of seconds to wait for event processing to be complete before responding as healthy. If event processing takes longer than this amount of time, the GraphQL API may serve incomplete data. |

## Examples

### Basic example

```ts filename="ponder.config.ts"
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";
import { http } from "viem";

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    mainnet: {
      chainId: 1,
      transport: http(process.env.PONDER_RPC_URL_1),
    },
  },
  contracts: {
    ArtGobblers: {
      network: "mainnet",
      abi: "./abis/ArtGobblers.json",
      address: "0x60bb1e2aa1c9acafb4d34f71585d7e959f387769",
      startBlock: 15863321,
    },
  },
});
```

### Using top-level await

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```ts filename="ponder.config.ts" {3,17}
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";

const startBlock = await fetch("http://...");

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    mainnet: {
      chainId: 1,
      transport: http(process.env.PONDER_RPC_URL_1),
    },
  },
  contracts: {
    ArtGobblers: {
      network: "mainnet",
      abi: "./abis/ArtGobblers.json",
      address: "0x60bb1e2aa1c9acafb4d34f71585d7e959f387769",
      startBlock,
    },
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Implement global request throttling (#552)
* initial move to viem transport

* more transport

* work on transport queue

* more request queue

* .

* request queue

* start to add priority to historical queue

* work on refactory historical sync service to not use a queue

* fix historical sync type errors

* more request queue cleanup

* test requestQueue kill

* historical sync emits sync complete event

* historical sync emits an event when sync complete

* requestQueue now a property of network

* indexing function read contract use request queue

* implement batching in the request queue

* fix indexing transport tests

* realtime sync service cleanup

* historical sync benchmark script

* improve testing

* fix tests

* better request queue

* historical sync error handling

* historical sync error handling

* implement priority into queue

* historical sync service cleanup

* block not found error

* implement rpc request metrics (#553)

* implement rpc request metrics

* remove todo

* remove priority

* fix test type errors

* remove .only

* emit error from historical sync

* sync store retry and error logic

* cleanup ponder.ts

* fix indexing function retries

* fix historical sync tests

* fix typecheck

* remove console

* .

* request queue tests

* request queue tests #2

* add more promise chaining
:

* remove some instances of promise chaining

* refactor historical sync with async await

* use more async in historical sync

* race condition setup fix

* fix test env

* handle errors in realtime sync service

* maxRequestsPerSecond

* historical sync benchmark

* improve shutdown error handling

* cleanup

* remove transport from internal network type

* cleanup vite config

* fixes for kevin

* cleanup

docs/pages/docs/api-reference/config.mdx, after:

---
title: "Config API"
description: "API reference for the Ponder config file."
---

import { Callout, Tabs } from "nextra/components";

# Config API

The `ponder.config.ts` file contains contract names, addresses, and ABIs; network information like chain IDs and RPC URLs; database configurationl; and general options.

The `createConfig` function exported from `@ponder/core` returns the config object, which must be exported (named export called `config`) from `ponder.config.ts`.

## File requirements

The `createConfig` function exported by `@ponder/core` returns a config object which must be the default export of `ponder.config.ts`. By default, `ponder dev` and `start` look for `ponder.config.ts` in the current working directory. You can use the `--config-file` CLI option to specify a different path.

```ts filename="ponder.config.ts" {1,4}
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";
import { http } from "viem";

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    // ...
  },
  contracts: {
    // ...
  },
});
```

## Networks

The `networks` field is an object where each key is a network name containing that network's configuration. Networks are Ethereum-based blockchains like Ethereum mainnet, Goerli, or Foundry's local Anvil node.

<Callout type="warning">
  Most Ponder apps require a paid RPC provider plan to avoid rate-limiting.
</Callout>

| field                            |         type          |                                                                                                                        |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **name**                         |       `string`        | A unique name for the blockchain. Must be unique across all networks. _Provided as an object property name._           |
| **chainId**                      |       `number`        | The [chain ID](https://chainlist.org) for the network.                                                                 |
| **transport**                    |   `viem.Transport`    | A Viem `http`, `webSocket`, or `fallback` [Transport](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/transports/http.html).              |
| **pollingInterval**              | `number \| undefined` | **Default: `1_000`**. Frequency (in ms) used when polling for new events on this network.                              |
| **maxRequestsPerSecond**         | `number \| undefined` | **Default: `100`**. Maximum number of RPC requests per second. Can be reduced to work around rate limits.              |

```ts filename="ponder.config.ts" {7-12,16}
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";
import { http } from "viem";

import { BlitmapAbi } from "./abis/Blitmap";

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    mainnet: {
      chainId: 1,
      transport: http(process.env.PONDER_RPC_URL_1),
    },
  },
  contracts: {
    Blitmap: {
      abi: BlitmapAbi,
      network: "mainnet",
      address: "0x8d04a8c79cEB0889Bdd12acdF3Fa9D207eD3Ff63",
      startBlock: 12439123,
    },
  },
});
```

## Contracts

<Callout>
  This is a low-level API reference. For an approachable overview & recipes, see
  the [Add contracts](/guides/add-contracts) guide.
</Callout>

The `contracts` field is an object where each key is a contract name containing that contract's configuration. Ponder will sync & index contract data according to the options you provide.

| field             |             type             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| :---------------- | :--------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **name**          |           `string`           | A unique name for the smart contract. Must be unique across all contracts. _Provided as an object property name._                                                                                                        |
| **abi**           |        `abitype.Abi`         | The contract [ABI](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.17/abi-spec.html) as an array as const. Must be asserted as constant, see [ABIType documentation](https://abitype.dev/guide/getting-started#usage) for details. |
| **network**       |           `string`           | The name of the network this contract is deployed to. References the `networks` field.                                                                                                                                   |
| **address**       | `0x{string} \| 0x{string}[]` | One more more contract addresses. Mutually exclusive with `factory`.                                                                                                                                                     |
| **factory**       |    [`Factory?`](#factory)    | Factory pattern configuration. Mutually exclusive with `address`.                                                                                                                                                        |
| **filter**        |     [`Filter?`](#filter)     | Event filter criteria.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **startBlock**    |    `number \| undefined`     | **Default: `0`**. Block number to start syncing events. Usually set to the contract deployment block number. **Default: `0`**                                                                                            |
| **endBlock**      |    `number \| undefined`     | **Default: `undefined`**. Block number to stop syncing events. If this field is specified, the contract will not be indexed in realtime. This field can be used alongside `startBlock` to index a specific block range.  |
| **maxBlockRange** |    `number \| undefined`     | The maximum block range that Ponder will use when calling `eth_getLogs` during the historical sync. If not provided, Ponder uses a sane default based on the network.                                                    |

```ts filename="ponder.config.ts" {17-20}
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";
import { http } from "viem";

import { BlitmapAbi } from "./abis/Blitmap";

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    mainnet: {
      chainId: 1,
      transport: http(process.env.PONDER_RPC_URL_1),
    },
  },
  contracts: {
    Blitmap: {
      abi: BlitmapAbi,
      network: "mainnet",
      address: "0x8d04a8c79cEB0889Bdd12acdF3Fa9D207eD3Ff63",
      startBlock: 12439123,
    },
  },
});
```

### Factory

| field         |                         type                         |                                                                                               |
| :------------ | :--------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **address**   |                       `string`                       | The address of the factory contract that creates instances of this contract.                  |
| **event**     | [`AbiEvent`](https://abitype.dev/api/types#abievent) | The ABI item of the event that announces the creation of a new child contract.                |
| **parameter** |                       `string`                       | The name of the parameter within `event` that contains the address of the new child contract. |

### Filter

| field     |               type                |                                                                                                                                                   |
| :-------- | :-------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **event** | `string \| string[] \| undefined` | **Default: `undefined`**. One or more event names present in the provided ABI.                                                                    |
| **args**  |       `object \| undefined`       | **Default: `undefined`**. An object containing indexed argument values to filter for. Only allowed if **one** event name was provided in `event`. |

## Database

Ponder uses a SQL database to cache blockchain data and store indexed data. In development, Ponder uses a SQLite database located at `.ponder/store/`. In production, Ponder works best with a PostgreSQL database. If no `database` is specified in `ponder.config.ts`, Ponder will use SQLite _unless_ the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable is present, in which case it will use PostgreSQL with `DATABASE_URL` as the connection string.

See [Deploy to production](/guides/production) for more details.

| field                |           type           |                                                                                                                |
| :------------------- | :----------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **kind**             | `"sqlite" \| "postgres"` | Kind of database to use.                                                                                       |
| **connectionString** |  `string \| undefined`   | **Default: `process.env.DATABASE_URL`**. Postgres database connection string. Only used if `kind: "postgres"`. |

## Options

| field                      |   type   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| :------------------------- | :------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **maxHealthcheckDuration** | `number` | **Default: `4 * 60`**. Maximum number of seconds to wait for event processing to be complete before responding as healthy. If event processing takes longer than this amount of time, the GraphQL API may serve incomplete data. |

## Examples

### Basic example

```ts filename="ponder.config.ts"
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";
import { http } from "viem";

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    mainnet: {
      chainId: 1,
      transport: http(process.env.PONDER_RPC_URL_1),
    },
  },
  contracts: {
    ArtGobblers: {
      network: "mainnet",
      abi: "./abis/ArtGobblers.json",
      address: "0x60bb1e2aa1c9acafb4d34f71585d7e959f387769",
      startBlock: 15863321,
    },
  },
});
```

### Using top-level await

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```ts filename="ponder.config.ts" {3,17}
import { createConfig } from "@ponder/core";

const startBlock = await fetch("http://...");

export default createConfig({
  networks: {
    mainnet: {
      chainId: 1,
      transport: http(process.env.PONDER_RPC_URL_1),
    },
  },
  contracts: {
    ArtGobblers: {
      network: "mainnet",
      abi: "./abis/ArtGobblers.json",
      address: "0x60bb1e2aa1c9acafb4d34f71585d7e959f387769",
      startBlock,
    },
  },
});
```
